In hindsight, now given the benefit of your experience, you think that organization of having the two, are there any, in looking back on that total experience, are there any agencies or units that were not under one of those two vice presidents today, as far as you know?
Not that I can think of.
That ought to be.
Oh, that ought to be?
No, I really don't think so, because if you rule out the other vice presidential areas, such as your academics and Bob Walker's operation and what have you, everything else is under one of those two.
And is the other true?
Is there anything under one of those two that ought to be reporting something?
Not that I can think of.
I think the organization the way it's established now as I understand it and the way it was before is I think as good as you can get because you got a check and balance.
Before there was no check and balance when they were combined.
Now the reason it worked so well because Tom Cherry and Howard Vestal were there was because of Tom Cherry and Howard Vestal.
Do you remember any particular crises that they dealt with and how they dealt with them?
Of course the budget was always our big problem.
We had a budget battle every session and every biennium we had to go to Austin to do testifying.
But getting our budgets approved was always a big problem.
And, of course, we had to justify it to them, and they, in turn, had to justify it to higher-ups, and ultimately to the board.
And I'm assuming that one of the central factors in those problems was the growth of the enrollment
and appropriations coming after.
Chicken and egg situation, absolutely.
You know, you can't get the appropriations without the enrollment, but once you get the enrollment, it's too late to build the infrastructure.
Our deferred maintenance program in the physical plant, for example, was just horrendous, and I'm sure it probably still is till this day.
Do you remember anything, any way money was spent or for what it was spent, which now in hindsight
would cause you to say, if I hadn't realized it then, we wouldn't have done it that way?
Was there any place where NM was spending some money that perhaps we shouldn't have spent money from this source for that purpose?
Nothing that stands out in my mind, Haskell.
I'm not aware of anything that we would have done a whole lot differently.
Did we take any auxiliary enterprise money
and spend it somewhere outside auxiliary enterprises area, which I presume would have been legal.
It would have been legal, but I'm not aware that it ever happened.
I do know that if within auxiliary enterprise areas that you needed to transfer some funds, I don't remember any specific examples, but that would be probably a very reasonable thing to do.
Which of the enterprises, auxiliary enterprises, was the most likely to have trouble paying it some way?
Shuttle bus operation was touch and go for a long time.
I remember when I made that presentation to the board, Dean Hubert was in the meeting and he says, you know, of all my years in public education, the thing that I have nightmares about is the bus operation.
And, but he said, but I'll, I think that, go ahead and give it a try.
But he said, I don't think it's ever going to work.
Which was always the most constant
positive operation financially?
Food service.
And I would say so primarily because of Fred Dollar.
Fred was just an unbelievably fine administrator.
And, of course, he could set the board rates to make sure that he always had adequate funds.
All right.
In the beginning of this question, I'm giving you omnipotence in this matter.
When I interviewed him, he said one of the
proposals that he always had tucked away in his insides that he wished the A&M academic leadership would have approved would have been an academic program in food service because we were so big, so many students worked in it, and the market for those people would have been so good.
Do you remember that ever being discussed at the higher level?
Not food service per se.
Now, University of Houston has a hotel and food service management course.
Also, Fred always had, I think he called it a bakery seminar or something where people would come in and it was a very successful program, but that was almost
like training people that were already in the food service business.
But I don't remember that ever being discussed as a possible academic endeavor.
The way he told it to me was not the hotel management.
Yes, it was strictly food service.
Food service.
I don't remember that ever being proposed as an academic endeavor.
Well, what he threw out to me was, think how logical it would be for someone to have worked in the food service program here,
to have got a major in that and then to go to work for one of the fast food places or one of the restaurant chains and so forth.
Okay, do you remember your first impressions of Jack Williams?
I would say that my first impression would be that he was a highly intelligent, very compassionate person that almost
as I would picture somebody being in the men's of society, that he was such a brain that he was just kind of above the rest of us earthlings.
Not an arrogant person, but still, I don't even want to use the word aloof because that's not a good word.
But he was just, you know, he was for real what I considered just an outstanding administrator, but also a highly intelligent individual.
All right.
Any...
in your responsibility, regardless of what level it was during his years, can you give any examples of his decision making, his judgment and so forth?
Not really, because when he was there, I was far enough down on the totem pole that I really didn't have any occasion to really know.
I'm sure Howard Vestal and Tom Cherry would have a lot to say in that area.
Now, does Mr. Cherry retire during the Williams years?
I believe he does because when I went in as Howard Vessels, Associate Vice President, Ludicke was in.
And you said, oh, oh, okay.
All right.
And now when I'm working for Calhoun in, over in the Teague Building, where were you officer?
What year was that?
This is under Williams.
I was officeing on the ground floor of Rudder Tower, behind the elevators.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
The little office snuggled in behind there.
Because Dr. Williams' office was in the now Jack Williams' building, the system building.
Yes, yes.
Okay, and all right, did, in your routine, did you have
meetings were you part of the group that met with Williams no all right so that would have been Howard I sat in on a couple meetings in Howard's absence when maybe Howard would be on vacation or something but only once or twice did you have any impression of his style of dealing with committees no not really it's so vague that I just don't recall did you
And did you ever get any direct calls from him?
Never did.
Okay.
Never did, uh-huh.
All right.
With William's illness in 76, and then the board kicks him upstairs, Jarvis Miller becomes the president, and then he serves through 1980.
Any memories you have of those years of how things were operating in the business area?
No, not really because my contact primarily was with Howard Vestal and Tom Cherry and of course I'm sure they interfaced.
I know that I took
After Jarvis had been given the boot, before while he was still in the President's home, I took some papers over for him to sign one time.
And I had just been promoted to Brigadier General at the time, and I was able to tell him about that, and he was very pleased over that.
But that's, I've never had any contact with him.
All right, now let's turn the corner on the, how were you able to keep going
very, very demanding professional job and your reserve.
Very carefully.
We had, of course, we were authorized two weeks a year military leave and then whatever vacation time we had coming.
I spent all of that time for years and years and years on active duty in the military.
All of both?
All of both.
We didn't have a vacation.
My kids grew up without knowing what a vacation was.
So you spent about a month
A month a year on active duty and then plus at least one and sometimes two weekends a month in addition to that.
Where would those weeks normally be spent?
I had on numerous assignments.
My first one was at Ellington Air Force Base in Houston and then I moved to Bergstrom Air Force Base in Austin and then to
Denver, Colorado, the Lowry Air Force Base, and then Oklahoma City for a couple of years, and then to Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, and then finally to Randolph Air Force Base where I finished my career.
Did the Air Force come pick you up?
Some of the time they did, and other times I would, if I was on orders for active duty, then I would get reimbursed by the government for my travel, air travel.
Other times I'd have to pay for it out of my pocket.
During the calendar year, when did this month usually fall?
In the summer, usually.
Usually in the summer, which is a slack time for us in auxiliary enterprises.
When I was at Maxwell, it was when I was promoted to Major General, got my second star there.
So then when I moved to Randolph as the assistant to the commander of Air Training Command, I already had my second star when I went down there.
And that's as high as you can go in the reserve.
Even the chief of the Air Force Reserve is only a two star.
Any Aggie experiences in your reserve duty that you recall?
I recall that I was known far and wide in the Air Force Reserve community as the Aggie, you know.
Really?
Not too many Aggies in the reserves at that level, you know.
Now, there are a lot of people that are in flying units that love to fly, and if you know anything about pilots, they'd rather fly an airplane than be the president.
I mean, it's almost an addiction with them.
But I was never able to fly because my eyes were always so bad.
I was always in the logistics support activities and what have you, and there are not too many Aggies that are in that
activity, especially at, say, full kernel and above.
So I was always known as the Aggie.
There comes the Aggie.
And I took a great deal of pride in that.
All right.
After Dr. Miller sent some interim for a year, were there any particular changes during his time in business affairs?
Not really.
It was a pretty steady organization.
Of course, Howard being vice president and me being his associate, that's when I first got my introduction to the Board of Regents, was when I moved in as associate vice president for business fairs under Howard, and that was a two-year period.
Was that during the interim time?
Chuck Samson was there, and then later on Frank came in.
Let's just briefly.
Dr. Miller is terminated.
I learned it the night I got to El Paso to begin service out there as UTEP president.
Where, how did you hear the news of what had happened to him?
It was a Wednesday night.
I don't remember.
The only thing I remember is that
At that time I was attending all the board meetings.
Howard always wanted me to go so I'd stay up to date on what was happening so that in his absence I'd be able to carry on.
And I do remember that Ross Weisenbecker used to have some very derogatory remarks about Jarvis Miller.
Called him Porky was his nickname because he was
at that time was a little bit overweight.
I don't know if he is now or not.
I haven't seen Jarvis in a long time.
But I thought at that time there's trouble a-brewin' because Weisenbaker at that time had a great deal of power on the board.
He was the chairman of the building committee.
I don't think that he ever wanted to be chairman of the board because he didn't want to take the demotion.
But I felt at that time that there was a problem ahead for Jarvis because of Weisenbaker's obvious dislike for him, and I never knew why.
Were you aware of any other board members that took sides for or against personalities at that particular time?
Not really.
When I started going, Bob Bright was chairman.
And, of course, I would sit on the end of the hall, onto the end of the boardroom right opposite him.
And I got to know all the board members on a personal basis and did the whole time I was there.
I was associate for two years and then vice president for four and a half years.
So I had six and a half years.
And I never missed a board meeting during that time as far as I know.
During those years, as far as you were aware, which board members were the most influential?
I'm not gonna ask you to leave.
Well, of course the chairman, whoever the chairman is, has to have a great deal of influence.
And Bum was a very strong,
a will person and a very strong person.
David Eller, on the other hand, had a completely different style, but it was very effective.
I thought a very effective chairman.
I'd have to say Royce Weisenbecker would probably come very close.
Billy Mac McKenzie was a very strong personality.
He and Weisenbecker had some clashes.
But I would say those are the ones that pop into my mind.
A lot of just super nice.
Joe Richardson was one of my favorites, just a super guy.
Now, I've heard some people offer the opinion that Mr. Eisenbaker seemed to have a bias in favor of anything engineering.
No question about it.
And negative of anything agriculture.
I can't speak to the negative on the agriculture side, but by process elimination, you could probably say, yes, that's a true statement.
But there's no question that he was very...
very partial to engineering, I think that Herb Richardson would have never surfaced to the level that he did without Royce's support, for example.
When Chuck Sampson took over as interim president, were there any particular briefing sessions to orient him for the business affairs area?
We gave him briefings, but I don't remember to what extent.
They were not in-depth briefings at all, no.
Were there any changes in routine for business affairs during his year?
Not to my knowledge.
Everything was going well, so we didn't make any changes.
Are you aware of how you first heard that Frank Vander was going to be the new president?
Howard's office was, of course we were all in the Koch building at that time,
Howard's office was a mirror of the president's office only on the other side.
Of course, you know where Mac Prescott's office was.
And my office was, well, I was kind of nestled in, I've forgotten exactly where it was.
It was nestled somewhere in between there.
But I remember when they were interviewing people for the job that a tall gentleman came in and he looked so familiar that I couldn't place where I'd seen him before.
And he came in to visit with Howard because it was customary at that time for all the vice presidents to talk to the prospects.
And after he left, Howard came into my office and he had a grin on his face.
He said, did you recognize that fellow that just left?
I said, I did, but I cannot for the life of me picture who he was.
He said, think of him with a uniform on me.
And I said, that was Lou Allen.
He was the chairman of, he was the chief of staff of the United States Air Force, four-star, and just retired.
And I know he was interviewed.
And I thought, you know, they're going to have to go some to beat that guy.
Well, then Frank Vandiver was announced.
I never heard of Frank Vandiver.
Didn't know him until I saw him the first time.
But...
He was my dissertation advisor at Rice.
Is that a fact?
For the Rudder Memorial Service, he was the interim president at Rice at that point.
And he asked me if I would take him to the service.
He wanted to represent Rice.
And he said, I don't know how far away the airport is from G.Y.I.
I said, well, I can drive that car.
We can make it in a half a day or so.
And so I go back a long way with him.
He called me the night before his appointment was announced and said, don't let it out until it is announced tomorrow.
And he said, what do you think?
And I said, Dr. Andrew, I can't think of anyone I've ever known who will have a harder time understanding Texas A&M than you will.
He said, what do you mean?
And I said, you are so brilliant intellectually.
that you never had to go through all of the routine that us ordinary folks did.
You didn't go to organized classes until you began your master's degree at age 15, I think it was.
And I said, A&M is a very routine place.
You go through the routine.
Extremely conservative.
And I said, I mean by that word, hesitant to change, whether for better or for worse.
And I said, you're one who is willing to change anything, anytime.
Very prophetic.
Now, when he came, how did you all make him aware of A&M business affairs?
Well, of course, as I say, Howard was still the vice president, and I was the associate vice president.
But Howard included me.
in almost everything he did.
That was his style and I really appreciated that very much.
But there were, as I recall, we took him on a tour of all the various business activities and he was very impressed with the size of the physical plant and the magnitude of the business operations and the millions and millions of dollars of monies that were handled in the business affairs area.
But, no, it was a, as I recall, we had a whole week that we took him and introduced him to people and what have you.
Okay.
Then, is it during his administration that you, that things are divided and that there are two vice presidents?
They were all together under Howard.
When Howard retired is when they were divided.
And who's president there?
Frank Vandenberg is, yeah.
And this, I would think that most people don't realize it, but Art Blair had a tremendous amount of influence over Frank as far as organizational structure and day-to-day operations were concerned.
And for the purposes of this tape, just identify him.
Art Blair was the, I believe his title was assistant to the president.
One little bit of trivia that we cooked up, all the vice presidents were in line of chain of command to assume the presidency in the president's absence.
Well, I think first was the vice president of academic affairs and then Eddie Joe and I think there were five of us all together.
I think I was about fourth on the list.
Well, one day for a two-day period, everyone was gone.
So Art called up, and he says, guess what?
He said, you're the acting president.
I said, put it in writing.
So he wrote a letter, and I have it framed hanging on the wall, designating me as the acting president of Texas A&M University for a two-day period.
So it's nothing, but it's a bit of trivia.
But Art Blair had a whole lot to do with this organizational structure, and they brought me into quite a bit of it before it was put in concrete.
Now, was Art military in background?
Retired military, he was a professor of English at West Point for many years, and at the Citadel before that.
But he was career military, retired as a full colonel, Army full colonel.
And he and Frank, I think, met at the Citadel, but I don't know in what capacity.
But when Howard announced his retirement, Frank asked me to come in.
That was along about the time I'd made my first star, and Frank was very,
appreciative of that, very complimentary of the fact that he had a general on his staff.
He brought me in, sat me down, shut the door, and he said, Chuck, I got something I want you to, a little job I want you to take on for me.
I said, well, sure, sir, what can I do for you?
Thought maybe he was going to be United Way Drive chairman or something.
He said, well, we're considering the reorganization of the business affairs area, and we're going to create a new position called Vice President for Operations, and he said, I'd like you to take that position.
Of course, he could have knocked me over the feather, because I had no idea that, first of all, there's going to be a reorganization, or that I would even be considered as Howard's replacement.
And so, in any event... As far as you know, had that reorganization change been cleared with Chancellor Huber?
I do not know.
I do know that one of the things that Frank had almost insisted upon...
was a free hand on doing whatever reorganization he felt was appropriate at the university level.
So I feel, you know, out of courtesy, I'm sure that he ran it by Hubert, but I'm sure that he felt at that stage of the game that he had the decision-making authority to do that.
And so then after that organizational structure was put into place, then, of course, then we needed the vice president for finance, and that's where Eddie Joe came in.
All right.
During those years as vice president,
What were the major decisions that they all made?
A lot of it had to do with construction.
I almost lived with General Peel for a long period of time because there was so much construction going on during that period of time, all of which involved business affairs and operations and physical plant and the interaction between General Peel's operation and at that time Joe Estill's operation at the physical plant where they just almost lived together.
Of course, Joe's working for General Peel now.
I don't know if you knew that or not.
Robert Smith fired him as director of the physical plant and he was probably one of the best physical plant directors in the entire United States at the time.
President of their national association at the time he was fired.
And that was a bad mistake in my opinion but of course I was retired and I'm not going to second judge somebody else's judgment.
But in any event, General Peel
hired joe and he has him in a very responsible position now and so but i forgot what the question was well the major decisions oh yes other than construction i'd say just day-to-day operation of all the activities and they were varied well you know we had so many activities going and all of them growing like topsy do you remember any decision major minor which
You now say, gee, if I had known then what I now know, we would have done it differently?
No, not really.
I think that the decisions we made were appropriate for the time, and I don't know of anything that we did that was too sharp.
Parking was always a problem.
I felt we should have probably accelerated our parking garage program.
If you'd known then what you know now, would you put the parking structures in the same places?
I think so.
I would have made them bigger.
I would have made them larger than they are now, especially the one behind Rudder Tower.
Why can't that one be expanded to the south?
It could be.
That property is almost wasted property in there and it's prime location.
It's prime.
You can build another structure the size of that one behind it and
and it would not there's a little draw in there but that's no that's no engineering problem and uh in terms of appearance it would not be could just look like an extension of that but if you consider the the parking garage behind the coldest building the parking garage over on university drive and the parking garage on the west campus that's the only place visitors have to park now if you wanted to go to the library for example someone
of my age or older, you can't get there from here.
That's right.
You know, you're prohibited from going on the campus because it's too far to walk and you can't park close enough for a reasonable.
My office is on the sixth floor of the Evans Library and two or three people have said, well, let me come to your office.
And I tell them, no, it'd be simple.
Forget it.
Yeah.
I need to meet you somewhere else.
And I don't know a solution to that now.
No, not now.
We're landlocked.
Okay.
Can you remember any, was there any, in any of your years, whether as vice president or were there any attempts that you can share by some former student, some legislator, some outsider to try to influence something like that?
Only in two areas.
Trying to get somebody a dormitory room or trying to get somebody football tickets.
Neither of which I could influence because we had responsibility for the dormitories but not what happened in the dormitories.
That was all under John Coldest.
The housing office was always under John.
No calls to you about parking tickets?
Yes, I had a few of those.
A few of those.
From anybody of any supposed potent position?
No, no.
Bob always took the stance that if you're going to have a policy, you've got to enforce it across the board.
He even towed Vandiver's car one day.
He was illegally parked and he knew it was Vandiver's car, but he was illegally parked and he towed it.
Made him pay 50 bucks to get it out of the compound.
Oh, now you remind me of one I want to put on this tape.
The anecdote way back about that black man that was kind of Mr. Rudder's errand runner.
I can't remember his name.
No, I don't know.
It was a very mature man.
And he got stopped on the campus by a campus policeman for speeding.
Because he was really scared.
And as I understood the story, he told the campus policeman, you can't give me a ticket.
Why can't?
Well, I work for President Rutter, and I'm his number one man.
And as I understand, the campus policeman said, I work for Mr. Rutter, too.
And I think he would want me to give you a ticket because you've been speeding too much.
uh and later i understood that when mr under heard about that he said that's right give him the ticket yeah um all right so then vandiver and now you serve under what other presidents he's the only one he's all right so he's the last one right i went in as vice president fairly soon after he got there and he was there as i recall seven and a half years and i was there four and a half so he was the only president i ever worked for as vice president in building construction or any other
were there ever any system bureaucracy interferences that were frustrating?
Not from the system, no.
There was one positive deal that I thought was an interesting story having to do with the extension of runway 1634 at Easterwood.
It was a 5,500 foot long runway.
And we made the proposal that we need to extend it.
FAA came in and studied the situation.
They were going to fund some aviation dollars, and we had some money from our auxiliary enterprise we were going to put in, and we were going to make it a 7,500-foot runway.
Got to the building committee.
We had it all proposed and all funded and ready to go.
And Mr. Weisenbecker said, no, so that's not going to work.
He said, we need a 10,000 foot runway.
And we all said, yes, sir, we know we need that, but we can't afford it.
He says, you're not listening.
We need a 10,000 foot runway.